Lyzandra Pine (I just wanted to shoehorn that first name there (although, it will be funny if I get to write the subplot for the rights of the Devozi and do some Team Plasma references, since the masculine name Lyzandre's etymology comes from "lys (French for lily) and Lysandre (French cognate of the name Lysander that is of Greek origin meaning "liberator" and the namesake of a Spartan admiral)" (according to Bulbapedia)) while Pine is a reference to how Pokémon professors tend to be named after trees): The head of the research team and one of the pioneers of the Devozi Database. A datahoarder by nature, always excited about learning something new. Her purple hair is often in an unkempt ponytail or bun.

Ren: The player character. Etymology: a unisex name, 恋 (ren) meaning "love". (according to Behind The Name)

RIVAL: The player's rival.

Bellwort: Named after a flower. The gym leader of the Fruta Gym. A botanist by trade outside of gyms and one of the workers at the Fruta Orchards. You are not likely to be able to find a plant she is unable to identify.

Sailor: No one except their employer knows their real name, so everyone calls the ferry operator Sailor. No one knows where they came from, except that probably outside of Chanphos. Extremely reserved and likes to keep to themselves. Outside work hours, they can usually be found at Harport Town.

WATERGYM: An outgoing fisherman who, when not at the gym, helps out with the island's trade. He is a hobbyist scuba diver and helps gather seaweed and other things every now and then. Rumors say that he and Sailor have something going on since WATERGYM is the only one who talks with them a lot, but neither party has confirmed anything.

FIREGYM: A passionate geologist who has spent most of his life studying the local volcano, Lacano. Suffers from a good bunch of anxiety when not studying or battling, so he does not have much else going on in his life.

EARTHGYM: Originally a miner before choosing to try their hand at becoming a trainer and staying on the path ever since, EARTHGYM takes her duty as the Gym Chief seriously. She keeps up a confident charade, but inside she is still trying to get used to her new body after transition.

METALGYM: While they usually have a stern demeanor, METALGYM downright melts if you recognize their Acetronaut pin - or any other pin or patch donning their long jacket - and you can easily find yourself talking for an hour with them, even if you were supposed to be in the middle of a Gym battle. METALGYM is one heck of a loyal friend, though, and if you get them talking for long, they will insist on changing numbers so you can keep in touch when you keep on going on your journey.

MASTER: The current Chanphos Master, MASTER is an experienced trainer who worked for years to get to where she is now. Defeating her will not be an easy task. Outside of Master's Ring, she can be found at random places, doing her best to make the world once devastated by war a better place. Some say that just her smile alone can heal.
