There are multiple tiers which depict the status of the Devozi in the world.

Legend Tier - Devozi only spoken of in myths or rumors. The existence of some is questionable at best while others have been spotted before.

Smoke Phantom: An obscure Fire-type Devozi that has been said to live in the Lacona volcano. The only substantial evidence that there is something are the images of blurry, shadowy being that have been taken. Until proper sightings have been made, this rumored Devoz has been dubbed Smoke Phantom.

Regenesys: An imposing, robot-like legendary Metal-type Devoz who is said to have been a major factor in ending the war that ravaged the Chanphos region and establishing Regenesys City, which was named after it. It stayed in the city as a guardian for several decades before taking off one day and disappearing. Many statues of it were built to Regenesys City as tributes and as symbolic guardians. Nowadays, it is seen as more of a myth than reality, although some have considered starting a new war to see if the old guardian will return...

Eaiseth (etymology: earth, raise): A Devoz spoke of in legends. It is said to have raised the region from the bottom of the sea to the surface and blessed the Gemral City's area with valuable ore and gemstones. No even relatively contemporary sightings have been made of this ground-dwelling Devoz, so it is seen as a mere myth, more so than Regenesys.

Competitive Tier - The most powerful Devozi lines. Rather difficult to find, catch and/or raise to their full power. Extremely rare at early game, quite rare in mid-game and uncommon in late game (likehoods will be adjusted by gym victories due to the small scale of the world).

Wood: Forood (etymology: forest, wood): A forest-dwelling ape which spends its days up the trees. Highly vigilant, it is unlikely to spot it on the ground. -> lvl 20 -> Wongle (etymology: jungle, wood): A swift ape accustomed to staying on the trees for long periods of time. If you are in a forest and something nasty falls on you, it is likely to have from from a Wongle on a high branch out of your sight. -> lvl 42 -> Naservod (etymology: nature reserve, wood): An ape even quicker than Wongle. Its long limbs and light build allow it to traverse long distances both on land and in the trees. It is said that a healthy Naservod can traverse the whole region within 12 hours, which made them excellent messengers during the war whenever the communication systems were down.

Water: Wiver (etymology: river, water (wiver is an obsolete synonym for wyvern)): A winged reptilian capable of both flying and diving. It is capable of living both on land and underwater, but prefers underwater environments. -> lvl 20 -> Rapidster (etymology: rapids, water): Its wings have developed bigger, allowing it a greater speed especially while swimming. Witnessing them racing one another in the rapids and rivers is a sight to behold. -> lvl 42 -> Wafall (etymology: waterfall, water): Stronger and faster than its previous forms, Wafall takes pride in its powerful wings and speeds that rival even that of raging waterfalls. Its size and capabilities make it an excellent helper for everyone surrounded by water, whether they are sailors, islanders or work on artificial structures at the ocean.

Fire: Heartre (etymology: hearth, fire): The first Heartre was spotted having made a nest inside a hearth overnight. It loves residing in wood-heated houses and is a hard worker when it comes to anything even remotely related to making fire. -> lvl 20 -> Campsmofi (etymology: campfire, fire, smoke): Campsmofi is a reliable steed for any traveler who can handle fire. They are proud and obstinate, making them difficult to handle - especially if you are not comfortable with making fires. -> lvl 42 -> Wildire (etymology: wildfire, fire): Especially in the past, at the heart of a wildfire you tended to find a Wildire. Their strong six pairs of legs and two pairs of arms can uproot trees and set them on fire with a mere breath.

Metal: Platal (etymology: platinum, metal): Covered in more plates than it lets on, this cube-like Devoz can shift its size and shape at will. Most of the time, it is passive, preferring to spend its time messing with passersby for its own amusement. -> lvl 20 -> Chromtal (etymology: chromium, metal): A far more offense-oriented cube than Platal, Chromtal specilizes on utilizing its sharpened plates and waiting in ambush. It tends to be more mean-spirited... or perhaps it is simply the way it manifests that stands out... -> lvl 42 -> Iriniumtal (etymology: iridium, titanium, metal): This cube has mastered unfastening its plates and using them as projectile weapons. Engaging a wild Iriniumtal is extremely dangerous as it does not care whether it hits the opposing Devoz, a static object or another living being. Training one is difficult, but after earning its trust, it will be a valuable ally both in battle and life.

Earth: Fierth (etymology: field, earth): Most often spotted in agricultural settings, it is a reclusive, timid being that has a knack for improving the quality of the soil. As such, it is sought after among farmers. -> lvl 20 -> Eartope (etymology: slope, earth): Eartopes, despite their jagged appearance, love rolling down whatever hills and slopes it can find. After all, that is the fastest it will ever get even if it does not evolve. -> lvl 42 -> Mountaerth (etymology: mountain, earth): Massive, hulking and slow, this Devoz is easiest to transport long distances within its capsule. They tend to spend their lives on the same spot, getting the nourishment from the soil underneath.

Starter Tier - Devozi lines used as starters. One for each type, can be caught elsewhere. Almost as strong as the Competitive Tier Devozi and about as easy to find, catch and raise as Mid Tier Devozi. Quite rare at early game, uncommon in mid-game and quite common in late game (likehoods will be adjusted by gym victories due to the small scale of the world).

Wood: Seeround (etymology: seed, round): A cute and round Devoz that usually moves by rolling and hopping around. It is popular around especially children for its cuteness. -> lvl 14 -> Linground (etymology: seedling, ground): The seed that Seeround was has grown into a seedling, but its eyes are still the same cute eyes its previous form has. Linground has grown branch-like arms, so it no longer rolls so much, opting to hop and leap instead. -> lvl 32 -> Talree (etymology: tree, tall): Having grown into a full-blown tree, Talree stands taller than most of the known trainers and can leap almost twice as far as even the best athletes due to its long and strong roots. While it is serene by nature, its branch arms can lash out devastating attacks at its opponents.

Water: Rippond (etymology: pond, ripple): A small frog-like Devoz. At night, you can hear and even see them communicate with one another around ponds the rain has formed. -> lvl 14 -> Lakave (etymology: lake, wave): Lakave's strong hind legs can launch it through the water at such high speeds that they create notable waves. During the war, Lakaves sent out to be distractions were often mistaken as missiles or torpedoes. -> lvl 32 -> Ocenami (etymology: ocean, tsunami): Wild Ocenami tend to live deep in the ocean. It is said that an angered individual can create tsunamis, if given enough water to form one. Attacking one, let alone a group of them, is extremely unadvisable because of this.

Fire: Heash (etymology: heat, ash): When sleeping, it looks like a pile of ash surrounded by embers, but on the move its four legs, glowing red eyes and brightly glowing ember markings are unmistakable signs of a living being. -> lvl 14 -> Cember (etymology: cinder, ember): Heash's ash has reverted into cinders, and while the light and brittle material provides little defense, Cember makes up for it with lots of firepower and speed. -> lvl 32 -> Flamog (etymology: log, flame): From cinders to properly burning logs, Flamog's defenses are higher, but so is the firepower. It is able to set fire to anything it headbutts.

Metal: Smopper (etymology: copper, small): A small and copper-colored robot. It can change its form from a humanoid form to a canine form at will. The results for the search word "smol" always include results with this Devoz, no matter the search engine. -> lvl 14 -> Silrage (etymology: silver, average): A silver-colored, bigger version of its previous form. It has better control over its form-changing and, thus, can turn into any animal it knows. -> lvl 32 -> Golig (etymology: gold, big): A big, gold-colored robot that can now turn into anything it can envision in its mind. Its humanoid form usually reminds people of a human it cares about, most often their trainer.

Earth: Rochip (etymology: rock, chip): Its rocky exterior tends to chip and leave traces of it behind. While it is impossible to stop this chipping, fortunately Rochip always grows the lost mass back. -> lvl 14 -> Hillbris (etymology: hill, debris): Bigger than Rochip and twice the messier. Fortunately, the chips break down even better on the ground than Rochip's, making them excellent for compost. -> lvl 32 -> Dunoft (etymology: dune, soft): Bigger, softer and looser than Hillbris, but somehow far less messy when healthy, as it can recall its chipped parts back and keep them with it. At times, however, it is advisable to skim Dunoft's surface from extra chips, especially since bigger ones tend to bring trash and other debris with themselves and can cause infections.

Mid Tier - Devozi lines that are moderately powerful. Relatively easily accessible to all trainers, and very common in mid-game, about as common as Beginner Tier Devozi in late game.

Wood: Vinardy (etymology: vine, hardy): A Devoz that wields vines it can lengthen at will as its fingers, it can survive even in forests ravaged by wildfires and pollution. Usually, it is the first to return to its destroyed home area. -> lvl 16 -> Thrivant (etymology: thrive, plant): It loves to take care of its home area. If you spot this camouflaged vine-user in the wild, you know that the area is at least getting healthier. -> lvl 35 -> Lushora (etymology: lush, flora): Territorial especially towards those who don't treat its home with respect. Its massive, tree-like, vine-covered arms can lift almost twice its weight. If you see one in a devastated area, you can be certain that the area will be restored back to lushness.

Water: Driptiny (etymology: droplet, tiny): A tiny, droplet-like Devoz that could be mistaken for a drop of water if it did not have eyes and was not many times bigger than any droplet. Due to its fluid nature, it is rather difficult to catch (because hitting it with a capsule is harder than the catching tutorials make it look). -> lvl 16 -> Dleflect (etymology: puddle, reflection): If you ever hear a puddle cry out when you step into it, you know that you just stempped onto a Dleflect and not water. It is said that if you can see your reflection on a Dleflect's surface, it can steal your eyesight. Studies have later shown that this is not true; instead, a Dleflect will align its eyes with yours and mimic their movements. -> lvl 35 -> Sprom (etymology: spray, storm): Whenever there is a storm at the coast, Sproms gather to where the waves meet the land and dance along the sprays. Interrupting their dancing will lead you to getting tossed into the waves by a group of beings mostly made out of water half your size.

Fire: Spindlirk (etymology: spark, kindling): With almost indestructible hooves, this Devoz can light anything flammable even without anything to strike the hooves against. While it prefers walking on four legs, it can rise on either pair of its legs to make sparks with the other pair. -> lvl 16 -> Timbire (etymology: timber, fire): This Devoz now sports a pouch it carries flammable material in, in addition to its hooves. Whenever it is low on flammable material, it will snatch whatever it can to fill its reserves. Just in case it needs to light a fire. -> lvl 35 -> Flamepoint (etymology: flashpoint, flame): Able to breathe blobs of fire hotter than the flashpoint of most flammable materials, this Devoz is one of the favorites of those who need to burn trash... or crucial evidence.

Metal: Scorag (etymology: scoria, slag): A being of scoria, it often gets disregarded by most people looking for Metal-types, as they are captivated by the shininess of the other Metal-types. A trainer who gives it a chance will, however, with enough time, effort and love get its own shine out. -> lvl 16 -> Dufin (etymology: refine, dull): After hard work, it has refined itself to be a shinier Devoz with hopes of attracting attention from others. Unfortunately, its shine is dull, so it still gets disregarded many a time. -> lvl 35 -> Sheiny (etymology: steel, shiny): After more work, this Devoz has finally achieved the shine it wanted, and now it stands among its fellow Metal-types as an option even the more shallow people will consider.

Earth: Gimd (etymology: gem, find): It is said to have been mistaken for a sample of ore once upon a time until it extending its hidden legs and scurrying back to where it was found. They live near areas full of minerals. -> lvl 16 -> Trynnel (etymology: tunnel, try): These tunnel-diggers use their sharp and sturdy claws to find minerals to stash. They occasionally stash Gimds as well and adopt them upon seeing their mistake. -> lvl 35 -> Dinpth (etymology: mine, depth): Friends to miners, they often aid in mining operations even if they don't have trainers. A part of the reason is that this way they can direct the mining operations away from whatever it wants to protect, whether it is its dwelling or stash. They also guide those who have gotten lost in the tunnels outside.

Beginner Tier - Early-game Devozi that are easy to catch and raise. Very commonly found throughout the game, although the likelyhoods of coming across them will lessen as the game goes on due to adjusted appearance rates.

Wood: Graot (etymology: roots, grass): Composed of mostly roots, this small Wood-type Devoz keeps to itself. It is slow and thus easy to catch. -> lvl 12 -> Sreen (etymology: stem, green): This plant stem with arms, legs and eyes is rather uncanny to look at, but if you are ever in need of oxygen, this Devoz can provide - at least if the requirements for photosynthesis are met. -> lvl 27 -> Bloower (etymology: flower, bloom): Whereas Sreen was a mere stem, Bloower dons a beautiful red flower as its hair. Its fragnance is pleasant to most, although it is known to be able to alter its smell to repel those it does not like. Sometimes in online discourse, "ok boomer" is replaced with either "ok bloower" or simply a picture of Bloower.

    (etymology: sapling) -> lvl 21 -> (etymology: shrub) (will be scrapped for now to save time; will be added if everything else is already done)

Water: Boshel (etymology: shell, bottom): A small shellfish that tends to live at the bottom of whatever body of water it can find, even a shallow puddle. It is the easiest to find on land during droughts - when it's searching for water - or after rains when they crowd new puddles. -> lvl 12 -> Swirtle (etymology: turtle, swim): A turtle has come out of the shell that used to be Boshel! While slow, it is sturdy and steadfast. -> lvl 27 -> Divoise (etymology: tortoise, dive): Often seen at sea, this tortoise visits land every so often in search of food or better territories to live in.

    (etymology: cloud) -> lvl 21 -> (etymology: rain) (will be scrapped for now to save time; will be added if everything else is already done)

Fire: Flotker (etymology: hot, flicker): The flickering in the eyes of this Devoz is charming. However, when upset or excited, it is hot to touch, so be careful when you handle it! -> lvl 12 -> Burlame (etymology: burn, flame): If we did not know any better, everyone would think that this Devoz has actual flames for eyes. Touching its face can leave a careless handler with a burn. -> lvl 27 -> Charre (etymology: char, fire): With a charred-looking face and fiery eyes, this Devoz looks threatening, making it a favorite of many young children who want to look cool. However, Charre uses most of its energy to showing off, making it a weaker choice in battle.

    (etymology: bomb) -> lvl 21 -> (etymology: explosion) (will be scrapped for now to save time; will be added if everything else is already done)

Metal: Beginnore (etymology: ore, beginning): While its metal side shows more prominently than that of real ore, beginner miners can mistake this Devoz for actual ore. The grumpiest individuals' teeth will be quick to correct their mistake. -> lvl 12 -> Ironprove (etymology: iron, improve): Steadfast and less grumpy than Beginnore, you cannot mistake this block of metal for an item. If looks could harm you, its sharp eyes could cut anyone it glares at -> lvl 27 -> Beuild (etymology: beam, build): A bunch of beams connected together, this imposing Devoz is ready to slam anyone it deems a threat into the ground. Watch out for its beam limbs when it moves!

    (etymology: chain) -> lvl 21 -> (etymology: jewel) (will be scrapped for now to save time; will be added if everything else is already done)

Earth: Blaynch (etymology: clay, bunch): A bunch of clay said to have been gathered together and cursed to live as a living being - scientific data on this story is inconclusive - this bitter Devoz likes to keep to itself. The problem is that regardless of its origins, its population has skyrocketed, making it impossible for it to hide from trainers and each other alike. -> lvl 12 -> Soilump (etymology: soil, clump): The clay core within it has gathered other types of soil around it both to shield it and to mask it. Its eyes, however, are still visible, making it hard for it to avoid detection by those who know what they are looking for. -> lvl 27 -> Groundound (etymology: mound, ground): A spiteful but unexpectedly common Devoz. It is more unlikely to find an actual mound at an uncharacteristic location than a Groundound.

    (etymology: sand) -> lvl 21 -> (etymology: glass) (will be scrapped for now to save time; will be added if everything else is already done)
